---
layout: quickpost
author: Minh Le
title: True AI
---

## Definition

6. True AI is general AI.
    1. True AI can perform a variety of tasks with the same or higher performance than an adult human.
    1. True AI can perform a new task well given little instructions (either in a natural language or programmatically) or training examples.
3. True AI must be beneficial for humans
    1. I consider this an axiom.

## Other types of AI

1. Most current research focused on narrow AI: software designed to perform a particular task or a few of them.
    1. Narrow AI has solved many problems and created many others.
    2. Narrow AI is our chance to learn how to regulate AI before a general AI appears.
2. Some researchers aspire to create conscious AI or artificial life.

## Properties of true AI

2. The word "artifical intelligence" implies a cognitive tool.
    1. "Artificial" means man-made.
    1. "Intelligence" is the ability to do useful things.
    1. There's nothing in the word that implies consciousness or life-like properties.
4. AI must always be a tool.
    1. Artificial life will compete with humans for resources.
    1. Conscious AI will update its goals and gradually drift from what is beneficial for humans.
    1. It is ethically troublesome to control a conscious and highly intelligent entity.
5. AI must be widely and evenly distributed.
    1. Tools confer power to their owners.
    1. History shows that concentrated power brings misery to the majority.
    1. More power means more misery and destruction.
7. Where humans can generalize, true AI should generalize in the same way.
    1. [Principle of least astonishment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment)